.\"     Title: atlas-cli
.\"    Author: Lucas Cram
.\"    Source: atlas-shell-tools 1.0.0
.\"  Language: English
.\"
.TH "ATLAS-CLI" "7" "28 September 2020" "atlas\-shell\-tools 1\&.0\&.0" "Atlas Shell Tools Manual"
.\" -----------------------------------------------------------------
.\" * Define some portability stuff
.\" -----------------------------------------------------------------
.ie \n(.g .ds Aq \(aq
.el       .ds Aq '
.\" -----------------------------------------------------------------
.\" * set default formatting
.\" -----------------------------------------------------------------
.\" disable hyphenation
.nh
.\" disable justification (adjust text to left margin only)
.ad l
.\" -----------------------------------------------------------------
.\" * MAIN CONTENT STARTS HERE *
.\" -----------------------------------------------------------------

.SH "NAME"
.sp
atlas\-cli \-\- Atlas Shell Tools command line interface and conventions

.SH "SYNOPSIS"
*

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.sp
\fBatlas\-shell\-tools\fR(7) makes use of various command line conventions and
utilities to provide a comprehensive user experience.

The \fBShells\fR section discusses the various shells supported by \fBatlas\-shell\-tools\fR(7).

The \fBOptions\fR section explains the various ways \fBatlas\-shell\-tools\fR(7) parses
command line options.

The \fBTAB Complete\fR section shows the various ways that TAB completions can make command
line interaction easier.

.SH "SHELLS"
.sp
While \fBatlas\-shell\-tools\fR(7) is compatible with any command shell, \fBbash\fR(1) and
\fBzsh\fR(1) users can take advantage of both the quick installation scripts and advanced TAB
completion features.

For \fBbash\fR(1) users, note that while \fBatlas\-shell\-tools\fR(7) works best with \fBbash\fR(1)
version 4, version 3 can still utilize the full TAB complete feature set.

.SH "OPTIONS"
.sp
\fBatlas\-shell\-tools\fR(7) has two ways of dealing with options:
.sp
1. Perl's Getopt::Long semantics are used when parsing global options suppled to the \fBatlas\fR(1) and
\fBatlas\-config\fR(1) scripts. In the following command line, the '\-\-debug' option is a global option:
.sp
.RS 4
$ atlas \-\-debug my\-command \-\-opt1
.RE
.sp
2. Subcommand options are parsed with the SimpleOptionAndArgumentParser class, found in the
Atlas repo <https://github.com/osmlab/atlas>. Please check the source of that class for
javadoc documentation comments detailing the parsing semantics. They are similar to the
GNU semantics found here:
<https://www.gnu.org/software/libc/manual/html_node/Argument\-Syntax.html>.
More links are provided in the class documentation. In the following command line,
the '\-\-opt1' option is a subcommand option:
.sp
.RS 4
$ atlas \-\-debug my\-command \-\-opt1
.RE
.sp
Also note that both the Perl option parsing and the SimpleOptionAndArgumentParser class recognize options
using a shortest non-ambiguous prefix. For example, suppose 'my\-command' takes two options '\-\-large\-option'
and '\-\-lazy\-option'. You could specify the '\-\-lazy\-option' by simply
supplying '\-\-lazy' at the command line. However, supplying '\-\-la' would cause an error since 'la'
is an ambiguous prefix between those two options.

.SH "TAB COMPLETE"
.sp
\fBatlas\-shell\-tools\fR(7) supports various TAB completions for the \fBbash\fR(1) and
\fBzsh\fR(1) shells. \fBatlas\fR(1) will contextually complete subcommand names in the current activated
module, the '\-\-preset' option with various available presets, and local files. \fBatlas\-config\fR(1)
will contextually complete subcommands as well as relevant arguments to whatever subcommand is provided
on the command line.

.SH "ATLAS SHELL TOOLS"
.sp
Part of the \fBatlas\-shell\-tools\fR(7) suite
