.\"     Title: atlas-glossary
.\"    Author: Lucas Cram
.\"    Source: atlas-shell-tools 0.0.1
.\"  Language: English
.\"
.TH "ATLAS-GLOSSARY" "7" "1 December 2018" "atlas\-shell\-tools 0\&.0\&.1" "Atlas Shell Tools Manual"
.\" -----------------------------------------------------------------
.\" * Define some portability stuff
.\" -----------------------------------------------------------------
.ie \n(.g .ds Aq \(aq
.el       .ds Aq '
.\" -----------------------------------------------------------------
.\" * set default formatting
.\" -----------------------------------------------------------------
.\" disable hyphenation
.nh
.\" disable justification (adjust text to left margin only)
.ad l
.\" -----------------------------------------------------------------
.\" * MAIN CONTENT STARTS HERE *
.\" -----------------------------------------------------------------

.SH "NAME"
.sp
atlas\-glossary \-- A glossary of Atlas Shell Tools terms and concepts

.SH "SYNOPSIS"
*

.SH "DESCRIPTION"

.sp
ARGV
.RS 4
Throughout the Atlas Shell Tools manual, ARGV refers to the argument vector from the
command line. In the context of \fBatlas\fR(1), it generally refers to the
actual arguments passed to the command. \fBatlas\fR(1) converts your command line
like "$ atlas --globalOpt MyCommand arg1 --opt1" into a JVM call, so here ARGV refers
to just ["arg1", "--opt1"], the actual arguments given to the JVM.
.RE

.sp
command
.RS 4
A command generally refers to a Java class that implements an Atlas Shell Tools
command. In order to implement an Atlas Shell Tools command, the class must be
a subclass of \fBAbstractAtlasShellToolsCommand\fR, found in the Atlas project:
see https://github.com/osmlab/atlas/
.RE

.sp
module
.RS 4
Atlas Shell Tools lingo for a JARfile that contains implementations of commands
(see "command" in this glossary). Once a JARfile has been installed into
Atlas Shell Tools using \fBatlas\-config\fR(1), it is known as a module and
is referred to using its module name, as reported by \fBatlas\-config\-list\fR(1).
.RE

.sp
preset
.RS 4
A preset is a list of saved options for a given command. Presets have a name,
but they are meaningless without their associated command context \- ie. the
preset "p1" is not meaningful unless you say the preset "p1" for command
"MyCommand". Technically speaking, presets are additionally qualified by a
namespace, but this can be effectively ignored unless that behavior is desired.
Presets and their namespaces are manipulated using the \fBatlas\fR(1) program.
See the \fBPRESETS\fR section in \fBatlas\fR(1) for more information.
.RE

.SH "ATLAS SHELL TOOLS"
.sp
Part of the \fBatlas\-shell\-tools\fR(7) suite
