.\"     Title: atlas-config-repo
.\"    Author: Lucas Cram
.\"    Source: atlas-shell-tools 0.0.1
.\"  Language: English
.\"
.TH "ATLAS-CONFIG-REPO" "1" "1 December 2018" "atlas\-shell\-tools 0\&.0\&.1" "Atlas Shell Tools Manual"
.\" -----------------------------------------------------------------
.\" * Define some portability stuff
.\" -----------------------------------------------------------------
.ie \n(.g .ds Aq \(aq
.el       .ds Aq '
.\" -----------------------------------------------------------------
.\" * set default formatting
.\" -----------------------------------------------------------------
.\" disable hyphenation
.nh
.\" disable justification (adjust text to left margin only)
.ad l
.\" -----------------------------------------------------------------
.\" * MAIN CONTENT STARTS HERE *
.\" -----------------------------------------------------------------

.SH "NAME"
.sp
atlas\-config\-repo \-\- Register and manage Atlas Shell Tools repositories

.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.sp
.nf
\fIatlas\-config\fR \fIrepo\fR \-\-help
\fIatlas\-config\fR \fIrepo\fR \fIadd\fR <repo\-name> <URL> [ref]
\fIatlas\-config\fR \fIrepo\fR \fIadd\-gradle\-exclude\fR <repo\-name> <package>
\fIatlas\-config\fR \fIrepo\fR \fIadd\-gradle\-skip\fR <repo\-name> <task>
\fIatlas\-config\fR \fIrepo\fR \fIedit\fR <repo\-name>
\fIatlas\-config\fR \fIrepo\fR \fIinstall\fR <repo\-name> [\-\-ref=ref]
\fIatlas\-config\fR \fIrepo\fR \fIlist\fR [repo\-name]
\fIatlas\-config\fR \fIrepo\fR \fIremove\fR <repo\-name>
.fi

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.sp
\fBatlas\-config\-repo\fR(1) provides an interface for managing repo objects (By repo,
we simply mean any \fBgit\fR(1) repository that contains Atlas Shell Tools command
implementations). Once a new repo object has been registered using \fIadd\fR,
new modules can be installed from the repo using the \fIinstall\fR directive.
This makes it easy to fetch the newest versions of Atlas Shell Tools commands and
manage their multiple sources. Additional directives facilitate more advanced use
cases. See the \fBDIRECTIVES\fR section for details.
.sp
For module installation, \fBatlas\-config\-repo\fR(1) uses the default \fBbuild.gradle\fR
of the referenced repo, but with a special injected configuration designed to build a fat
JAR that will work with Atlas Shell Tools. See the \fIinstall\fR directive for more details
on this process. Additionally, \fBatlas\-config\-repo\fR(1) provides some other directives to
manipulate this configuration.
.sp
Also note that registering new repos with \fIadd\fR does not actually save the referenced
repository on your machine. Rather it simply stores some metadata (which we refer to as a repo
object) that is used to clone the referenced repo at install\-time. The clone is saved in
a temporary location and is removed when module installation completes.

.SH "DIRECTIVES"
\fBatlas\-config\-repo\fR(1) exposes its interface through various directives,
detailed below.
.sp

.PP
\fIadd\fR
.RS 4
Add a new repo object with a given <repo\-name>, \fBgit\fR(1) remote <URL>, and an
optional default [ref]. Here, [ref] is a \fBgit\fR(1) ref (e.g. a branch name, a tag, or
even a commit hash). If no explicit [ref] is provided, \fIadd\fR defaults to 'master'. The ref
associated with a repo object is used by \fIinstall\fR as the default. See \fIinstall\fR for more
information. Note that for <URL>, you can use any git\-clonable URL, i.e. an https:// URL, a file://
URL, or even a local path like /Users/you/somerepo.
.RE

.PP
\fIadd\-gradle\-exclude\fR
.RS 4
Add an excluded <package> to repo <repo\-name>. When the \fIinstall\fR directive
builds a module, it is using Gradle (with a custom Atlas Shell Tools configuration) to create a
fat JAR file for that module. Excluded packages are removed from the Atlas Shell Tools Gradle
configuration using Gradle's 'exclude group:' directive. The 'exclude module:' directive is
not currently supported.
.RE

.PP
\fIadd\-gradle\-skip\fR
.RS 4
Add a skipped <task> to repo <repo\-name>. When the \fIinstall\fR directive
builds a module, it is using Gradle (with a custom Atlas Shell Tools configuration) to create a
fat JAR file for that module. By default, \fIinstall\fR is running a \fB./gradlew clean build\fR.
Adding skipped tasks effectively adds \fB\-x <task>\fR arguments to the above command.
.RE

.PP
\fIedit\fR
.RS 4
Edit the configuration for repo <repo\-name> if it exists. The default repo editor
is \fBvim\fR, but this can be changed by setting the \fBATLAS_SHELL_TOOLS_EDITOR\fR
environment variable.
.RE

.PP
\fIinstall\fR
.RS 4
Install a module from a repo object with name <repo\-name>. This command will clone
the repo referenced by <repo\-name>'s URL to a temporary location. Next, it will check
out the ref specified in <repo\-name>'s config or use the override provided by \-\-ref
if present. It will then initiate a Gradle build, using the repo's \fBbuild.gradle\fR
file with a custom injected Atlas Shell Tools configuration. Finally, it will install
and activate the freshly built module. When the install finishes, the cloned repo will
be removed.
.RE

.PP
\fIlist\fR
.RS 4
Display all registered repo objects, along with their URLs and default refs. If a [repo\-name]
is provided, then display the full configuration of the given repo object.
.RE

.PP
\fIremove\fR
.RS 4
Remove the registration for repo object <repo\-name>, if it exists.
.RE

.SH "EXAMPLES"
.sp
Register a new repo object with name \fBmy\-repo\fR and default branch \fBmaster\fR:
.sp
.RS 4
$ atlas\-config repo add my\-repo https://github.com/me/my\-repo.git
.RE
.sp
Register a new repo object with name \fBmy\-repo\fR and default branch \fBmy\-branch\fR:
.sp
.RS 4
$ atlas\-config repo add my\-repo https://github.com/me/my\-repo.git my\-branch
.RE
.sp
Skip Gradle task 'integrationTest' when installing from \fBmy\-repo\fR:
.sp
.RS 4
$ atlas\-config repo add\-gradle\-skip my\-repo integrationTest
.RE
.sp
Install a new module from repo \fBmy\-repo\fR, but override the default ref with a specific release:
.sp
.RS 4
$ atlas\-config repo install my\-repo \-\-ref=1.3.9
.RE
.sp

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.sp
\fBatlas\-config\fR(1), \fBatlas\-glossary\fR(7)

.SH "ATLAS SHELL TOOLS"
.sp
Part of the \fBatlas\-shell\-tools\fR(7) suite
