.\"     Title: atlas-config-install
.\"    Author: Lucas Cram
.\"    Source: atlas-shell-tools 0.0.1
.\"  Language: English
.\"
.TH "ATLAS-CONFIG-INSTALL" "1" "1 December 2018" "atlas\-shell\-tools 0\&.0\&.1" "Atlas Shell Tools Manual"
.\" -----------------------------------------------------------------
.\" * Define some portability stuff
.\" -----------------------------------------------------------------
.ie \n(.g .ds Aq \(aq
.el       .ds Aq '
.\" -----------------------------------------------------------------
.\" * set default formatting
.\" -----------------------------------------------------------------
.\" disable hyphenation
.nh
.\" disable justification (adjust text to left margin only)
.ad l
.\" -----------------------------------------------------------------
.\" * MAIN CONTENT STARTS HERE *
.\" -----------------------------------------------------------------

.SH "NAME"
.sp
atlas\-config\-install \-\- Install a new Atlas Shell Tools module from a local JAR

.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.sp
.nf
\fIatlas\-config\fR \fIinstall\fR \-\-help
\fIatlas\-config\fR \fIinstall\fR [\-\-symlink] [\-\-force] [\-\-skip] [\-\-deactivated]
                     [\-\-name=<\fIname\fR>] <\fIJARfile\fR>
.fi

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.sp
Installs and activates a given <\fIJARfile\fR> as a new \fBatlas\fR module.
This will deactivate any currently activated module. If you are trying to install
a module from a specific repo, please see \fBatlas-config-repo\fR(1) for more information.

When installing directly from a <\fIJARfile\fR>, the \fB\-\-symlink\fR option
can be enabled to install using a symbolic link. This is great for cases where
the underlying <\fIJARfile\fR> may change dynamically (e.g. when incrementally
rebuilding the JAR during development/testing of a new command).

Note that once a module is installed, it should be referred to by its module
name and not by the <\fIJARfile\fR> name. The module names are displayed by
\fBatlas-config-list\fR(1). Unless the \fB\-\-name\fR option is used, the module name will be
the same as the <\fIJARfile\fR> name but without the '.jar' extension.

.SH "OPTIONS"
.sp

.PP
<\fIJARfile\fR>
.RS 4
The path to a JARfile containing \fBatlas\fR commands. Once installed, this JARfile
is referred to as a module.
.RE

.PP
\fB\-\-deactivated\fR
.RS 4
Install a module without actually activating it.
.RE

.PP
\fB\-\-force\fR
.RS 4
Force overwrite when re-installing an existing module.
.RE

.PP
\fB\-\-help\fR
.RS 4
Show this help menu.
.RE

.PP
\fB\-\-name\fR=<name>
.RS 4
Install a module using a custom name.
.RE

.PP
\fB\-\-skip\fR
.RS 4
Skip installation when re-installing an existing module.
.RE

.PP
\fB\-\-symlink\fR, \fB-s\fR
.RS 4
Install a module using a symlink as opposed to a copy.
.RE


.SH "EXAMPLES"
.sp
Install a module with custom name 'MyModule':
.sp
.RS 4
$ atlas\-config install \-\-name=MyModule ~/Desktop/example.jar
.RE
.sp
Install a symlinked module but do not activate it:
.sp
.RS 4
$ atlas\-config install \-\-symlink \-\-deactivated ~/example.jar
.RE

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.sp
\fBatlas\-config\fR(1), \fBatlas\-config\-uninstall\fR(1), \fBatlas\-config\-activate\fR(1)

.SH "ATLAS SHELL TOOLS"
.sp
Part of the \fBatlas\-shell\-tools\fR(7) suite
