.\"     Title: atlas-config
.\"    Author: Lucas Cram
.\"    Source: atlas-shell-tools 0.0.1
.\"  Language: English
.\"
.TH "ATLAS-CONFIG" "1" "1 December 2018" "atlas\-shell\-tools 0\&.0\&.1" "Atlas Shell Tools Manual"
.\" -----------------------------------------------------------------
.\" * Define some portability stuff
.\" -----------------------------------------------------------------
.ie \n(.g .ds Aq \(aq
.el       .ds Aq '
.\" -----------------------------------------------------------------
.\" * set default formatting
.\" -----------------------------------------------------------------
.\" disable hyphenation
.nh
.\" disable justification (adjust text to left margin only)
.ad l
.\" -----------------------------------------------------------------
.\" * MAIN CONTENT STARTS HERE *
.\" -----------------------------------------------------------------

.SH "NAME"
.sp
atlas\-config \-\- Configure the Atlas Shell Tools installation

.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.sp
.nf
\fIatlas\-config\fR [\-\-no-pager] \-\-help[=<\fIcommand\fR>]
\fIatlas\-config\fR \-\-version
\fIatlas\-config\fR [\-\-no-pager] [\-\-quiet] <\fIcommand\fR> [arg...]
.fi

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.sp
\fBatlas\-config\fR exposes an interface for configuring the Atlas Shell Tools
installation. It provides a way to install new modules, change the currently
activated module, reset the installation, and more. \fBatlas\-config\fR operates
using a subcommand interface, where each subcommand performs a different
configuration action. See the \fBATLAS\-CONFIG COMMANDS\fR section for more
information.
.sp
For running actual Atlas Shell Tools commands, see \fBatlas\fR(1).
.sp
For a glossary of Atlas Shell Tools terms, see \fBatlas\-glossary\fR(7).

.SH "OPTIONS"

.PP
<\fIcommand\fR>
.RS 4
This indicates a command. See the \fBATLAS\-CONFIG COMMANDS\fR section for a list of available
commands.
.RE

.PP
\fB\-\-help\fR[=<\fIcommand\fR>]\fR
.RS 4
Show the help menu for a given command. If no command is given, show
a general help menu and then exit.
.RE

.PP
\fB\-\-no\-pager\fR
.RS 4
Disable pagination for all documentation.
.RE

.PP
\fB\-\-quiet\fR, \fB\-q\fR
.RS 4
Suppress non-essential output.
.RE

.PP
\fB\-\-version\fR, \fB-V\fR
.RS 4
Show the \fBatlas\-config\fR version info and then exit.
.RE
.sp

.SH "ATLAS-CONFIG COMMANDS"
.sp
\fBatlas-config\fR uses a set of subcommands to present a high\-level interface
for installation configuration.

\fBatlas\-config\-activate\fR(1)
.RS 4
Activate an installed module.
.RE

\fBatlas\-config\-deactivate\fR(1)
.RS 4
Deactivate an installed module.
.RE

\fBatlas\-config\-install\fR(1)
.RS 4
Install a new module.
.RE

\fBatlas\-config\-list\fR(1)
.RS 4
List all installed modules and module statuses.
.RE

\fBatlas\-config\-log\fR(1)
.RS 4
Check or set log parameters.
.RE

\fBatlas\-config\-preset\fR(1)
.RS 4
Create and manage Atlas Shell Tools command presets.
.RE

\fBatlas\-config\-repo\fR(1)
.RS 4
Register and manage Atlas Shell Tools repositories.
.RE

\fBatlas\-config\-reset\fR(1)
.RS 4
Reset the installation.
.RE

\fBatlas\-config\-sync\fR(1)
.RS 4
Refresh the installation based on the active module.
.RE

\fBatlas\-config\-uninstall\fR(1)
.RS 4
Uninstall a module.
.RE

\fBatlas\-config\-update\fR(1)
.RS 4
Update the Atlas Shell Tools core toolkit.
.RE

.SH "TERMINAL AND ENVIRONMENT"
.sp
\fBatlas\-config\fR displays its various help and manual pages using \fBman\fR,
which is paged by default. To disable paged output for all documentation, try
the \fB\-\-no\-pager\fR option.
.sp
\fBatlas-config\fR uses formatted output when appropriate. To change this behavior,
\fBatlas-config\fR checks for existence of the following environment variables:
.sp
.RS 4
\fBNO_COLOR\fR \-
Disable all special formatted output. Other popular CLI tools also
respect this variable. See <https://no\-color.org>.
.sp
\fBATLAS_SHELL_TOOLS_NO_COLOR\fR \-
Disable special formatted output for \fBatlas\fR and \fBatlas-config\fR only.
.sp
\fBATLAS_SHELL_TOOLS_USE_COLOR\fR \-
Enable special formatted output. Overrides the setting of \fBNO_COLOR\fR and \fBATLAS_SHELL_TOOLS_NO_COLOR\fR.
.sp
.RE
\fBatlas-config\fR stores program data in compliance with the XDG Base Directory
specification, i.e. at $HOME/.local/share/atlas-shell-tools. It also respects the
\fBXDG_DATA_HOME\fR environment variable - if set, \fBatlas-config\fR will store program
data at the base path specified by that variable. See \fBatlas\-plumbing\fR(5) for
more information.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.sp
\fBatlas\fR(1), \fBatlas\-plumbing\fR(5), \fBatlas\-presets\fR(7)

.SH "AUTHOR"
.sp
This program was written by Lucas Cram <lucaspcram@gmail.com>.
Please report any bugs you find.

.SH "BUGS"
.sp
If you run the command:
.sp
.RS 4
$ atlas\-config install <active\-module>
.RE
.sp
where <active\-module> is the path to the currently active module JARfile, this
will start the installation process but then delete the JARfile.
.sp
Please report any bugs you find to the \fBAUTHOR\fR.

.SH "ATLAS SHELL TOOLS"
.sp
Part of the \fBatlas\-shell\-tools\fR(7) suite
