.\"     Title: atlas-config-uninstall
.\"    Author: Lucas Cram
.\"    Source: atlas-shell-tools 0.0.1
.\"  Language: English
.\"
.TH "ATLAS-CONFIG-UNINSTALL" "1" "1 December 2018" "atlas\-shell\-tools 0\&.0\&.1" "Atlas Shell Tools Manual"
.\" -----------------------------------------------------------------
.\" * Define some portability stuff
.\" -----------------------------------------------------------------
.ie \n(.g .ds Aq \(aq
.el       .ds Aq '
.\" -----------------------------------------------------------------
.\" * set default formatting
.\" -----------------------------------------------------------------
.\" disable hyphenation
.nh
.\" disable justification (adjust text to left margin only)
.ad l
.\" -----------------------------------------------------------------
.\" * MAIN CONTENT STARTS HERE *
.\" -----------------------------------------------------------------

.SH "NAME"
.sp
atlas\-config\-uninstall \-\- Uninstall Atlas Shell Tools module(s)

.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.sp
.nf
\fIatlas\-config\fR \fIuninstall\fR \-\-help
\fIatlas\-config\fR \fIuninstall\fR \-\-all
\fIatlas\-config\fR \fIuninstall\fR [\-\-force] <\fImodules...\fR>
.fi

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.sp
Remove installed module(s). If the module is a symlink, this will only
remove the link. It will \fBnot\fR delete the linked\-to file. By default, this
command will not uninstall an activated module. This can be overridden with the
\fB\-\-force\fR or \fB\-\-all\fR options.

.SH "OPTIONS"
.sp

.PP
<\fImodules...\fR>
.RS 4
This indicates one or more modules. The modules should be referred to using their names as
reported by \fBatlas-config-list\fR(1).
.RE

.PP
\fB\-\-all\fR, \fB\-a\fR
.RS 4
Uninstall all modules including the activated module, ignoring the supplied <\fImodule\fR>
argument if present. This is equivalent to running \fBatlas\-config reset \-\-modules\fR.
.RE

.PP
\fB\-\-force\fR
.RS 4
Force uninstall an activated module.
.RE

.PP
\fB\-\-help\fR
.RS 4
Show this help menu.
.RE

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.sp
\fBatlas\-config\fR(1), \fBatlas\-config\-install\fR(1)

.SH "ATLAS SHELL TOOLS"
.sp
Part of the \fBatlas\-shell\-tools\fR(7) suite
