.\"     Title: atlas-config-log
.\"    Author: Lucas Cram
.\"    Source: atlas-shell-tools 0.0.1
.\"  Language: English
.\"
.TH "ATLAS-CONFIG-LOG" "1" "1 December 2018" "atlas\-shell\-tools 0\&.0\&.1" "Atlas Shell Tools Manual"
.\" -----------------------------------------------------------------
.\" * Define some portability stuff
.\" -----------------------------------------------------------------
.ie \n(.g .ds Aq \(aq
.el       .ds Aq '
.\" -----------------------------------------------------------------
.\" * set default formatting
.\" -----------------------------------------------------------------
.\" disable hyphenation
.nh
.\" disable justification (adjust text to left margin only)
.ad l
.\" -----------------------------------------------------------------
.\" * MAIN CONTENT STARTS HERE *
.\" -----------------------------------------------------------------

.SH "NAME"
.sp
atlas\-config\-log \-- Check or set Atlas Shell Tools log parameters

.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.sp
.nf
\fIatlas\-config\fR \fIlog\fR [\-\-help]
\fIatlas\-config\fR \fIlog\fR [\-\-set-level=<level>] [\-\-set-stream=<stream>]
               [\-\-reset] [\-\-show]
.fi

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.sp
Use this command to check or set the current log parameters. Under the hood,
this command is a shortcut for modifying the \fBatlas\fR log4j configuration
file. It expects that file to follow a well-defined format. For best
results, avoid manually updating the file.

Note that this command requires at least one of the documented options to
be specified.

.SH "OPTIONS"
.sp
.PP
\fB\-\-help\fR
.RS 4
Show this help menu.
.RE

.PP
\fB\-\-reset\fR
.RS 4
Reset the log parameters to default, ie. level=\fBERROR\fR and stream=\fBstderr\fR.
This is equivalent to running \fBatlas\-config reset \-\-log\fR.
.RE

.PP
\fB\-\-set\-level\fR=<level>
.RS 4
Set the current logging level to <level>.
Valid log levels: \fBALL\fR, \fBTRACE\fR, \fBDEBUG\fR, \fBINFO\fR, \fBWARN\fR, \fBERROR\fR, \fBFATAL\fR, and \fBOFF\fR.
.RE

.PP
\fB--set-stream\fR=<stream>
.RS 4
Set the current logging stream to <stream>.
Valid stream settings: \fBstdout\fR and \fBstderr\fR.
.RE

.PP
\fB\-\-show\fR, \fB\-s\fR
.RS 4
Show the current log settings.
.RE

.SH "EXAMPLES"
.sp
Set the log level to \fBINFO\fR and the stream to \fBstdout\fR:
.sp
.RS 4
$ atlas\-config log \-\-set\-level=INFO \-\-set\-stream=stdout
.RE
.sp
Reset the log parameters and then show them:
.sp
.RS 4
$ atlas\-config log \-\-reset \-\-show
.RE

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.sp
\fBatlas\-config\fR(1)

.SH "ATLAS SHELL TOOLS"
.sp
Part of the \fBatlas\-shell\-tools\fR(7) suite
