.\"     Title: atlas-config-reset
.\"    Author: Lucas Cram
.\"    Source: atlas-shell-tools 0.0.1
.\"  Language: English
.\"
.TH "ATLAS-CONFIG-RESET" "1" "1 December 2018" "atlas\-shell\-tools 0\&.0\&.1" "Atlas Shell Tools Manual"
.\" -----------------------------------------------------------------
.\" * Define some portability stuff
.\" -----------------------------------------------------------------
.ie \n(.g .ds Aq \(aq
.el       .ds Aq '
.\" -----------------------------------------------------------------
.\" * set default formatting
.\" -----------------------------------------------------------------
.\" disable hyphenation
.nh
.\" disable justification (adjust text to left margin only)
.ad l
.\" -----------------------------------------------------------------
.\" * MAIN CONTENT STARTS HERE *
.\" -----------------------------------------------------------------

.SH "NAME"
.sp
atlas\-config\-reset \-\- Reset the Atlas Shell Tools installation

.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.sp
.nf
\fIatlas\-config\fR \fIreset\fR \-\-help
\fIatlas\-config\fR \fIreset\fR all
\fIatlas\-config\fR \fIreset\fR index
\fIatlas\-config\fR \fIreset\fR log
\fIatlas\-config\fR \fIreset\fR modules
\fIatlas\-config\fR \fIreset\fR presets
\fIatlas\-config\fR \fIreset\fR repos
.fi

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.sp
Completely reset the \fBatlas\fR installation. A full reset (using \fIall\fR) consists
of the following steps:

.RS 4
\fB1)\fR Uninstalling all installed modules

\fB2)\fR Removing all presets

\fB3)\fR Setting the log level back to \fBERROR\fR

\fB4)\fR Setting the log stream back to \fBstderr\fR

\fB5)\fR Deleting the active command index

\fB6)\fR Removing all saved repos
.RE

You can use various directives to only run some subset of these steps. See
the \fBDIRECTIVES\fR section for more details.

.SH "OPTIONS"
.sp

.PP
\fB\-\-help\fR
.RS 4
Show this help menu.
.RE

.SH "DIRECTIVES"
\fBatlas\-config\-reset\fR(1) exposes its interface through various directives,
detailed below.
.sp

.PP
\fIall\fR
.RS 4
Perform all the reset steps, fully resetting the environment to the
state it was in at install time.
.RE

.PP
\fIindex\fR
.RS 4
Reset the active module index.
.RE

.PP
\fIlog\fR
.RS 4
Reset the log parameters to default, i.e. level=\fBERROR\fR and stream=\fBstderr\fR.
This is equivalent to running \fBatlas\-config log reset\fR.
.RE

.PP
\fImodules\fR
.RS 4
Uninstall all installed modules. This is equivalent to running \fBatlas\-config uninstall \-\-all\fR.
.RE

.PP
\fIpresets\fR
.RS 4
Remove all saved presets in all namespaces. Also resets the current namespace
to 'default'.
.RE

.PP
\fIrepos\fR
.RS 4
Remove all saved repos.
.RE

.SH "EXAMPLES"
.sp
Reset everything:
.sp
.RS 4
$ atlas\-config reset all
.RE
.sp
Reset only the repos:
.sp
.RS 4
$ atlas\-config reset repos
.RE

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.sp
\fBatlas\-config\fR(1)

.SH "ATLAS SHELL TOOLS"
.sp
Part of the \fBatlas\-shell\-tools\fR(7) suite
