.\"     Title: atlas-config-preset
.\"    Author: Lucas Cram
.\"    Source: atlas-shell-tools 0.0.1
.\"  Language: English
.\"
.TH "ATLAS-CONFIG-PRESET" "1" "1 December 2018" "atlas\-shell\-tools 0\&.0\&.1" "Atlas Shell Tools Manual"
.\" -----------------------------------------------------------------
.\" * Define some portability stuff
.\" -----------------------------------------------------------------
.ie \n(.g .ds Aq \(aq
.el       .ds Aq '
.\" -----------------------------------------------------------------
.\" * set default formatting
.\" -----------------------------------------------------------------
.\" disable hyphenation
.nh
.\" disable justification (adjust text to left margin only)
.ad l
.\" -----------------------------------------------------------------
.\" * MAIN CONTENT STARTS HERE *
.\" -----------------------------------------------------------------

.SH "NAME"
.sp
atlas\-config\-preset \-\- Create and manage Atlas Shell Tools command presets

.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.sp
.nf
\fIatlas\-config\fR \fIpreset\fR \-\-help
\fIatlas\-config\fR \fIpreset\fR \fIcopy\fR <command> <src> <dest>
\fIatlas\-config\fR \fIpreset\fR \fIcopy\-global\fR <src> <dest>
\fIatlas\-config\fR \fIpreset\fR \fIedit\fR <command> <preset>
\fIatlas\-config\fR \fIpreset\fR \fIedit\-global\fR <preset>
\fIatlas\-config\fR \fIpreset\fR \fIlist\fR [command [preset]]
\fIatlas\-config\fR \fIpreset\fR \fIlist\-global\fR [preset]
\fIatlas\-config\fR \fIpreset\fR \fInamespace\fR <subdirective> [namespace]
\fIatlas\-config\fR \fIpreset\fR \fIremove\fR <command> [preset]
\fIatlas\-config\fR \fIpreset\fR \fIremove\-global\fR [preset]
\fIatlas\-config\fR \fIpreset\fR \fIsave\fR <command> <preset> <options...>
\fIatlas\-config\fR \fIpreset\fR \fIsave\-global\fR <preset> <options...>
.fi

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.sp
\fBatlas\-config\-preset\fR(1) provides a more granular preset management interface
than the basic \fBatlas\fR(1) options (\fB\-\-preset\fR, \fB\-\-save\-preset\fR).
It can handle more complex tasks like editing a preset in place, or managing the
preset namespaces. For full details on the workings of \fBatlas\-config\-preset\fR(1),
see the \fBTier 2\fR and \fBTier 3\fR sections in \fBatlas\-presets\fR(7).

.SH "OPTIONS"
.sp
.PP
\fB\-\-help\fR
.RS 4
Show this help menu.
.RE

.SH "DIRECTIVES"
\fBatlas\-config\-preset\fR(1) exposes its interface through various directives,
detailed below. Again, this information is presented in more detail in
\fBatlas\-presets\fR(7).
.sp

.PP
\fIcopy\fR
.RS 4
For <command>, copy preset <src> into new preset <dest>. <dest> must not already
exist, else the copy will fail.
.RE

.PP
\fIcopy\-global\fR
.RS 4
Copy global preset <src> into new global preset <dest>. <dest> must not already
exist, else the copy will fail.
.RE

.PP
\fIedit\fR
.RS 4
Edit preset <preset> for <command>. If <preset> does not exist, then it will be
created when the edit is successfully saved. The default preset editor is \fBvim\fR,
but this can be changed by setting the \fBATLAS_SHELL_TOOLS_EDITOR\fR environment variable.
.RE

.PP
\fIedit\-global\fR
.RS 4
Edit global preset <preset>. If <preset> does not exist, then it will be
created when the edit is successfully saved. The default preset editor is \fBvim\fR,
but this can be changed by setting the \fBATLAS_SHELL_TOOLS_EDITOR\fR environment variable.
.RE

.PP
\fIlist\fR
.RS 4
List all available presets (including globals), or list all presets for a given [command], or
list contents of preset [preset] for [command].
.RE

.PP
\fIlist\-global\fR
.RS 4
List all available global presets, or list contents of global preset [preset].
.RE

.PP
\fInamespace\fR
.RS 4
Execute a <subdirective> on a given preset [namespace]. Available subdirectives
are \fBcreate\fR, \fBlist\fR, \fBremove\fR, and \fBuse\fR. See \fBTier 3\fR in
\fBatlas\-presets\fR(7) for more details.
.RE

.PP
\fIremove\fR
.RS 4
Remove all presets for a given <command>, or remove the preset [name] for
<command>.
.RE

.PP
\fIremove\-global\fR
.RS 4
Remove all global presets, or remove the global preset [name].
.RE

.PP
\fIsave\fR
.RS 4
Save a preset <preset> for <command> without actually running the command.
<options...> is a sequence of options to be saved in the preset.
Again, recall that you must use the long option '=' syntax for specifying option
arguments when saving a preset (e.g. '--opt=arg' and \fInot\fR '--opt arg').
.RE

.PP
\fIsave\-global\fR
.RS 4
Save a global preset <preset>. <options...> is a sequence of options to be saved in the preset.
Again, recall that you must use the long option '=' syntax for specifying option
arguments when saving a preset (e.g. '--opt=arg' and \fInot\fR '--opt arg').
.RE

.SH "EXAMPLES"
.sp
Edit preset "p1" for command "MyCommand":
.sp
.RS 4
$ atlas\-config preset edit MyCommand p1
.RE
.sp
Create a namespace called "namespace1":
.sp
.RS 4
$ atlas\-config preset namespace create namespace1
.RE
.sp
Save a global preset "p1":
.sp
.RS 4
$ atlas\-config preset save\-global p1 --opt1 --opt2=opt2Arg
.RE
.sp
For more examples, see \fBatlas\-presets\fR(7).

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.sp
\fBatlas\-presets\fR(7)

.SH "ATLAS SHELL TOOLS"
.sp
Part of the \fBatlas\-shell\-tools\fR(7) suite
