.\"     Title: atlas-config-list
.\"    Author: Lucas Cram
.\"    Source: atlas-shell-tools 0.0.1
.\"  Language: English
.\"
.TH "ATLAS-CONFIG-LIST" "1" "1 December 2018" "atlas\-shell\-tools 0:\&.0\&.1" "Atlas Shell Tools Manual"
.\" -----------------------------------------------------------------
.\" * Define some portability stuff
.\" -----------------------------------------------------------------
.ie \n(.g .ds Aq \(aq
.el       .ds Aq '
.\" -----------------------------------------------------------------
.\" * set default formatting
.\" -----------------------------------------------------------------
.\" disable hyphenation
.nh
.\" disable justification (adjust text to left margin only)
.ad l
.\" -----------------------------------------------------------------
.\" * MAIN CONTENT STARTS HERE *
.\" -----------------------------------------------------------------

.SH "NAME"
.sp
atlas\-config\-list \-\- List installed Atlas Shell Tools modules and module statuses

.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.sp
.nf
\fIatlas\-config\fR \fIlist\fR \-\-help
\fIatlas\-config\fR \fIlist\fR [\-\-current] [\-\-one\-line]
.fi

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.sp
List installed modules with additional contextual information. This listing
is also known as the module workspace. The \fB\-\-current\fR option can be used to view
only the current activated module, if there is one. The \fB\-\-one\-line\fR option can be used to
suppress metadata output.

A \fB*\fR next to a module denotes that the module is activated. Symlinked
modules display their targets using the familiar arrow notation (\fB\->\fR). If a
symlink is broken, the warning \fB(BROKEN SYMLINK)\fR is displayed next to the
module name.

.SH "OPTIONS"
.sp

.PP
\fB\-\-current\fR, \fB-c\fR
.RS 4
Show only the currently activated module, if one is activated.
.RE

.PP
\fB\-\-help\fR
.RS 4
Show this help menu.
.RE

.PP
\fB\-\-one\-line\fR, \fB-1\fR
.RS 4
Suppress the module metadata output, instead displaying each module on a single line.
.RE

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.sp
\fBatlas\-config\fR(1)

.SH "ATLAS SHELL TOOLS"
.sp
Part of the \fBatlas\-shell\-tools\fR(7) suite
