.\"     Title: atlas-plumbing
.\"    Author: Lucas Cram
.\"    Source: atlas-shell-tools 1.0.0
.\"  Language: English
.\"
.TH "ATLAS-PLUMBING" "5" "28 September 2020" "atlas\-shell\-tools 1\&.0\&.0" "Atlas Shell Tools Manual"
.\" -----------------------------------------------------------------
.\" * Define some portability stuff
.\" -----------------------------------------------------------------
.ie \n(.g .ds Aq \(aq
.el       .ds Aq '
.\" -----------------------------------------------------------------
.\" * set default formatting
.\" -----------------------------------------------------------------
.\" disable hyphenation
.nh
.\" disable justification (adjust text to left margin only)
.ad l
.\" -----------------------------------------------------------------
.\" * MAIN CONTENT STARTS HERE *
.\" -----------------------------------------------------------------

.SH "NAME"
.sp
atlas\-plumbing \-\- Details about how Atlas Shell Tools stores toolkit program data

.SH "SYNOPSIS"
$HOME/.local/share/atlas-shell-tools/*

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.sp
Unless otherwise specified via the \fBXDG_DATA_HOME\fR environment variable,
\fBatlas\-shell-tools\fR(7) will store data at $HOME/.local/share/atlas-shell-tools.
This data directory itself contains four other directories, each of which is detailed
in its own section below. These directories store all user data for the toolkit (the toolkit
location is specified by the \fBATLAS_SHELL_TOOLS_HOME\fR environment variable).

.SH "LOG DIRECTORY"
$HOME/.local/share/atlas-shell-tools/log4j

This directory stores the default log4j configuration file for the toolkit. The parameters
in this file can be edited with \fBatlas\-config\-log\fR(1) \- they should \fBnot\fR be edited
manually. This directory also stores a backup log4j file that can be restored using the aforementioned
\fBatlas\-config\-log\fR(1) command should the default file become corrupted.

.SH "MODULE DIRECTORY"
$HOME/.local/share/atlas-shell-tools/modules

Also known as the module workspace, this directory stores modules (fat JARs), module metadata files,
and the active module index. Any JAR that is not the current active module will have a '.deactivated'
file extension. Files with a '.metadata' extension store additional information about the JAR file
with the same name. The active module index file, '.active_module_index', stores data about the
commands found in the current activated module and is used by \fBatlas\fR(1) to look up command
classes and provide the command list for the '\-\-list' option. The active module index stores
each command name, class, and description line\-wise with the fields separated by an ASCII record
separator character. This index can be refreshed with \fBatlas\-config\-sync\fR(1).

.SH "PRESET DIRECTORY"
$HOME/.local/share/atlas-shell-tools/presets

This directory stores all preset data for the toolkit. At root it contains a directory
for each preset namespace, using the 'default' namespace by default. The current active namespace
is stored in a file called '.current_namespace'. Within each namespace is 1) a directory called '.global'
which stores the global presets for the namespace and 2) directories
for any command that has saved presets under that namespace. The actual preset
data files are found within the '.global' and command directories. Preset data is stored
line\-wise exactly as each element will appear in ARGV, e.g. the line "--option=argument" will
become a single ARGV element "--option=argument".

The data in this folder can be managed with \fBatlas\-config\-preset\fR(1).

.SH "REPO DIRECTORY"
$HOME/.local/share/atlas-shell-tools/repos

This directory stores the repo data for all the registered repos. Each registered repo
has its own directory that contains the repo data file 'repo_config'. Repo data is stored
as line\-wise "key = value" pairs.

The data in this folder can be managed with \fBatlas\-config\-repo\fR(1).

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.sp
\fBatlas\-environment\fR(7)

.SH "ATLAS SHELL TOOLS"
.sp
Part of the \fBatlas\-shell\-tools\fR(7) suite
