.\"     Title: ash-config
.\"    Author: Lucas Cram
.\"    Source: ash-config 1.0.0
.\"  Language: English
.\"
.TH "ASH-CONFIG" "1" "1 December 2018" "ash-config 1\&.0\&.0" "Atlas Shell Tools Manual"
.\" -----------------------------------------------------------------
.\" * Define some portability stuff
.\" -----------------------------------------------------------------
.ie \n(.g .ds Aq \(aq
.el       .ds Aq '
.\" -----------------------------------------------------------------
.\" * set default formatting
.\" -----------------------------------------------------------------
.\" disable hyphenation
.nh
.\" disable justification (adjust text to left margin only)
.ad l
.\" -----------------------------------------------------------------
.\" * MAIN CONTENT STARTS HERE *
.\" -----------------------------------------------------------------

.SH "NAME"
.sp
ash-config \-- configure the OSM command line tool installation

.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.sp
.nf
\fIash-config\fR [\-\-no-pager] [\-\-help[=<\fIcommand\fR>]]
\fIash-config\fR [\-V | \-\-version]
\fIash-config\fR [\-\-quiet] <\fIcommand\fR> [arg...]
.fi

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.sp
Run a given configuration command.

.SH "OPTIONS"

.PP
<\fIcommand\fR>
.RS 4
This indicates a command. See the \fBCOMMANDS\fR section for a list of available
commands.
.RE

.PP
\fB\-\-help\fR[=<\fIcommand\fR>]\fR
.RS 4
Show the help menu for a given command. If no command is given, show
a general help menu and then exit.
.RE

.PP
\fB\-\-no\-pager\fR
.RS 4
Disable pagination for all documentation.
.RE

.PP
\fB\-\-quiet\fR, \fB\-q\fR
.RS 4
Suppress non-essential \fBash\fR output.
.RE

.PP
\fB\-\-version\fR, \fB-V\fR
.RS 4
Show the \fBash\fR version info and then exit.
.RE
.sp

.SH "COMMANDS"
.sp
Try \fBman ash-config-\fR<\fIcommand\fR> or \fBash-config --help\fR=<\fIcommand\fR>
for help with a specific command.

\fBactivate\fR
.RS 4
Activate an installed module.
.RE

\fBdeactivate\fR
.RS 4
Deactivate an installed module.
.RE

\fBinstall\fR
.RS 4
Install a new module.
.RE

\fBlist\fR
.RS 4
List all installed modules and module statuses.
.RE

\fBlog\fR
.RS 4
Check of set log parameters.
.RE

\fBreset\fR
.RS 4
Reset the installation.
.RE

\fBsync\fR
.RS 4
Refresh the installation based on the active module.
.RE

\fBuninstall\fR
.RS 4
Uninstall a module.
.RE

.SH "TERMINAL AND ENVIRONMENT"
.sp
\fBash-config\fr pages the output of the various command help messages. \fBash-config\fr will use
\fBless\fr for pagination. If the \fBPAGER\fR environment variable is set, then the
program it specifies will be used instead. Note that \fBash-config\fR expects your
specified pager to understand ANSI formatting codes. To disable all paged
output, try the \fB\-\-no\-pager\fR option.
.sp
\fBash-config\fR uses formatted output when approriate. To change this behavior,
\fBash-config\fR checks for existence of the following environment variables:
.sp
.RS 4
\fBNO_COLOR\fR \-
Disable all special formatted output. Other popular CLI tools also
respect this variable. See https://no-color.org/
.sp
\fBASH_NO_COLOR\fR \-
Disable special formatted output for \fBash\fR and \fBash-config\fR only.
.sp
\fBASH_USE_COLOR\fR \-
Enable special formatted output. Overrides the setting of \fBNO_COLOR\fR and \fBASH_NO_COLOR\fR.
.sp
.RE
\fBash-config\fR stores program data in compliance with the XDG Base Directory
specification, ie. at $HOME/.local/share/ash. It also respects the
\fBXDG_DATA_HOME\fR environment variable - if set, \fBash-config\fR will store program
data at the base path specified by that variable.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.sp
\fBash\fR(1)

.SH "AUTHOR"
.sp
This program was written by Lucas Cram <lucaspcram@gmail.com>.
Please report any bugs you find.

.SH "BUGS"
.sp
If you run the command:
.sp
.RS 4
$ ash-config install <active\-module>
.RE
.sp
where <active\-module> is the path to the currently active module JARfile, this
will start the installation process but then delete the JARfile.
