.\"     Title: ash-config-reset
.\"    Author: Lucas Cram
.\"    Source: ash-config 1.0.0
.\"  Language: English
.\"
.TH "ASH-CONFIG-RESET" "1" "1 December 2018" "ash-config 1\&.0\&.0" "Atlas Shell Tools Manual"
.\" -----------------------------------------------------------------
.\" * Define some portability stuff
.\" -----------------------------------------------------------------
.ie \n(.g .ds Aq \(aq
.el       .ds Aq '
.\" -----------------------------------------------------------------
.\" * set default formatting
.\" -----------------------------------------------------------------
.\" disable hyphenation
.nh
.\" disable justification (adjust text to left margin only)
.ad l
.\" -----------------------------------------------------------------
.\" * MAIN CONTENT STARTS HERE *
.\" -----------------------------------------------------------------

.SH "NAME"
.sp
ash-config-reset \-- Reset the installation

.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.sp
.nf
\fIash\-config\fR \fIreset\fR [\-\-help]
\fIash\-config\fR \fIreset\fR [\-\-force] [\-\-all]
\fIash\-config\fR \fIreset\fR [\-\-force] [\-\-modules] [\-\-presets]
                 [\-\-log] [\-\-index]
.fi

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.sp
Completely reset the \fBash\fR installation. A full reset (using \fB\-\-all\fR) consists
of the following steps:

.RS 4
\fB1)\fR Uninstalling all installed modules

\fB2)\fR Removing all presets

\fB3)\fR Setting the log level back to \fBERROR\fR

\fB4)\fR Setting the log stream back to \fBstderr\fR

\fB5)\fR Deleting the active command index
.RE

You can apply various options to only run some subset of these steps. See
the \fBOPTIONS\fR section for more details.

.SH "OPTIONS"
.sp
.PP
\fB\-\-all\fR, \fB\-a\fR
.RS 4
Perform all the reset steps, fully resetting the environment to the
state it was in at install time.
.RE

.PP
\fB\-\-force\fR, \fB\-f\fR
.RS 4
Skip all confirmation promtps when performing the reset.
.RE

.PP
\fB\-\-help\fR
.RS 4
Show this help menu.
.RE

.PP
\fB\-\-index\fR
.RS 4
Reset the active module index.
.RE

.PP
\fB\-\-log\fR
.RS 4
Reset the log parameters to default, ie. level=\fBERROR\fR and stream=\fBstderr\fR.
This is equivalent to running \fBash\-config log \-\-reset\fR.
.RE

.PP
\fB\-\-modules\fR
.RS 4
Uninstall all installed modules. This is equivalent to running \fBash\-config uninstall \-\-all\fR.
.RE

.PP
\fB\-\-presets\fR
.RS 4
Remove all saved presets in all namespaces. Also resets the current namespace
to 'default'.
.RE

.SH "EXAMPLES"
.sp
Reset everything and do not show any confirmation prompts:
.sp
.RS 4
$ ash\-config reset \-\-all \-\-force
.RE
.sp
Reset the preset and log parameters:
.sp
.RS 4
$ ash\-config reset \-\-presets \-\-log
.RE

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.sp
\fBash\-config\fR(1)

.SH "ASH-CONFIG"
.sp
Part of the \fBash\-config\fR(1) suite
